The tale of the British Berserker is one of those stories that feels more like a climax to a movie than an actual historical event. But according to Wikipedia, I looked at other sources. Wikipedia is just easier to read. It was just one of the many pivotal battles between England, led by King Herold ii, against the invading Norwegian Vikings, led by King Herold iii. There are two things about this story that make me want to believe this was someone's creative writing session back in 1060. I don't know when this happened. Number one, the fact they fought on a bridge called Stanford Bridge that led to a town also called Stamford Bridge. Number two, according to documents, the Vikings had no idea that such a large English army was at their doorstep. Most of them were completely drunk and asleep in the middle of the day. So when an entire English army shows up, they overwhelmingly get the advantage in battle. But what halted the English army in their tracks was that on that narrow wooden bridge, one lone warrior, his name unrecorded in history, raised his axe and stood defiant against 15,000 English warriors intent on granting his king and his people the time they desperately needed. And the only other information we know about this guy is that he was labeled a berserker by his enemies for his barbaric way of fighting and the fact that he just wouldn't go down. He made Stamford Bridge a bloodbath, and he managed to take down 40 English soldiers all by himself before someone wised up and stabbed him with a spear from below the bridge. Oh, that's so lame. His story is a story of a man who reached the peak of masculinity. Satan sacrificing himself in combat, and is the kind of man I fantasize in my head as I'm on my way to work. Pretend I'm driving. Okay, I forgot to get actual footage of me driving when I was going to work. So yeah, This scenario my adult brain whipped up comes from the part of my mind that the Internet has deemed to coin as much as my masculine urge. Initially, it was a term people use to ironically make fun of hyper masculine dumb boy things like throwing a rock to break a sheet of ice, or throwing trash into a bin from really far away. Or to wear a long overcoat and wander through the streets during a cold winter night. Or to dig a really big hole. This funny little trend, however, gets kind of interesting when men across the world agree on more serious masculine urges to a pretty noticeable degree. Like the urge to seclude yourself from society to focus on self improvement, being able to perform A task at the highest level due to grueling, meticulous training and of course being able to pull off an extraordinary heroic feat that saves lives. Everywhere I look, if you go down the rabbit hole enough, there are guys all agreeing that being extremely capable at something that benefits the lives of others is a fantasy of theirs. And the apex of this idea is the act of self sacrifice in combat. One of man's biggest fantasies. Now, I am not a neuroscientist, but I am certain that this tickle at the back of my brain when I watch this kind of stuff. It's real, right? It's real. I'm not just concussed, it's a real thing that you guys experience too. I want to preface that this isn't all men. We are not a symbiotic hive mind that think and act the same. But a lot of us are pretty damn close. Search up any YouTube video that's titled something like POV this is your final stand. You'll feel like you just walked into a room full of shonen protagonists. It's kind of cringe, but I love it. And audio. When it's time to lock in this is your villain arc or the all reliable the indomitable human spirit. It's clear from the comments of these videos that people listen to this stuff to get a good pump for a workout or when they need motivation to get back on the metaphoric horse of life. The reason why I bring this up in the context of self sacrifice is these one liners are often taken from scenes where the character unlocks their hidden potential. They cast aside every other desire except for overcoming the obstacle in front of them. And whether they die or not, they're throwing everything they humanly can at you. Because just like every RPG, you can still hit a crit at 1 HP. This then usually follows with the superhuman feat and or going out in a blaze of glory. And a lot of guys resonate with this kind of stuff. Me included. I, along with these Reddit people, fantasize of a world where we hone in solely on the enemy and for a moment become mankind's most dangerous fighter. It's like that one Kanye west song, you know. It's provocative guy. Imagine being someone that powerful. Imagine the satisfaction of being that unit that just doesn't go down. And even if you do die, you're known as the warrior that took down 200 people to kill or something. Such a fantasy would only be seen in the movies, except when it actually did happen in feudal Japan. Saito Musashibo Benkei was a Japanese warrior monk who defended the bridge to his lord's castle to his dying breath. It was said that he sliced and diced over 300 soldiers with his nakiba in order to buy time for his master to honorably commit seppuku. That's 299 times someone has had to watch their guy get eviscerated. And the guy that killed him just stares at you like. Next by number 300 or so, the anime wised up and was like, oh yeah, screw this. And started taking pot shots at him from a distance. And he still tanks them. After riddling him with so many arrows, one brave soldier actually gets close enough to look at him, only to realize that he was already dead. He was already gone multiple arrows ago. And he died standing upright with his glaive in his hand, propping himself up. This is literally Whitebeard. The thing is, this guy was basically already an anime character before all this. He's a weapons expert who KE his Masakari, his Kumade, his Tetsubo, and a bunch of other weapons on him at all times. He roamed Japan, claiming the swords of over 999 different samurai he had defeated. And he would have gotten to number 1000 if it wasn't for that damn Yitzune who beat him in combat. But it was that same Yitzune that became his best buddy for life and was the same guy he defended on that bridge. Now, I'm gonna refrain from speaking about this any longer. Cause I can feel that masculine tingle in my head and it's happening again, and I don't know how to stop it. That epic feeling of someone's life in your hands and the odds of survival being so close to zero ironically fills you up with adrenaline to keep on going. At least I think it does. The closest thing I ever got to Mortal Kombat was when I was clutching a Victory Royale with the boys. Benkei, Whitebeard, all might Moomin Rider, Future Gohan. It might be a little cringe, but I identify with these people. I identify with the virtue of self sacrifice because it shows that you are willing to risk your life for something that is bigger than just your sentiment of wanting to stay alive. Well, why is it self sacrifice specifically that I like? That same courageous virtue could definitely be seen with moms raising children or a child taking care of their parents in their old age. The short answer is that would be a terrible action movie to watch. A long answer, we're gonna have to enter a pretty dark and malevolent place to get it. A place full of toxic COD lobbies and men hating on any woman that isn't built like an over sexualized white 90s character. A place I never truly understood. But for the sake of the video, and I love you guys, we're gonna open this Pandora's box to make sense of a few things. I'm talking about the world of masculinity. Hey, y' all like the fit despite the cat ears? This is the most masculine thing I could come up with. My masculine outfit is in the wash until Tuesday, trust me. Okay, but the lumberjack outfit I thought exuded masculinity. All right, you blue haired betas. Oh God, my eyes. Class is in session. Not doing that again, despite my machismo. Look, we're not here to talk about sports or cars or women. We're here to talk about gender theory. Gender theory. Now look, I decided to get a degree in something that society actually values and pays decently well. So I am not exactly an expert in this whole debacle, but I am trying my best here. What you are witnessing now is a live autopsy of a guy analyzing his past self and why he had these kind of red pill adjacent ideas about masculinity. I'm just hoping we can all learn from it. Okay, I'm not exactly prideful or happy I used to think this way, but hey, we thank God for progress. Okay, so if I slip up and say something out of pocket. That's why gender euphoria is simply defined as the satisfaction someone feels when their gendered experience aligns with their gendered identity. Basically, it feels good to be a boy and do boy stuff because you're taught this is what boys like. We all basically know this. But there are certain traits as a man that feel good to perform as a man who follows these ideals of what a man is supposed to be. These are some of them now. Oh, okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Some of these got updated in the last patch, so I don't. I don't know why they're still there. Traits like self sufficiency, dominance, being powerful and muscular. These are the things that a guy who falls under this sense of what it means to be a man values in a sense, because in their head, that is what's necessary in order to perform as a man. And I want to put heavy emphasis on the term perform because it actually is a performance. There are definitely times as a man where I don't want to be all these things, but I feel like I gotta hence performing. It's Not a natural thing. In fact, the male body might compel us to cry or be vulnerable at certain times, but as a man, we don't cry, right? So we thug it out, you know, we thug it out and then we die at 60, you know. Despite the discourse online that certain men say that men don't care about feelings and they're not important to us, I think they're very much are. Look at these red pillars. When you encroach on their identity as a man, what they think it means to be a man, and then you'll see yourself if feelings are definitely not important for a man or never are expressed properly. Authenticity defined by Charles Taylor is the creation and construction as well as discovery of oneself. To be authentic is to perform these traits you think aligns with you order to become a man. So this is what they hammer in. This is the appeal for a lot of self help advice for men online. There's a road you're supposed to follow and if you follow it, you'll come out the other end a man, an authentic man. Traditional masculinity will tell you that you are not just born a man, but you need to become one as well. This is a big reason why a lot of male dominated media usually have this stoic powerhouse of a man moving as a force of nature, pummeling enemies into submission. And then we as men all go, yeah, yeah, that guy has it all figured out. I need to be like him. So researching this video, I discovered a pretty spooky place on Reddit. There was this post about asking these veterans from war why they like war so much. And despite how unpleasant and traumatic so many other soldiers say it is, why do they specifically almost like obsess over it and dream about it like it's the glory days? Here are some of my favorite quotes and responses to that question. War stops time and intensifies the experience to the point of horrific ecstasy. War brings infinite foreign experiences and a lifetime's worth of unbelievable. There's just something about knowing you won't make it that helps you fight so much harder. And we all, and men in particular, still want and need a narrative. All right, yeah, someone take Master Chief's keyboard away. This guy is yapping too much. Guy you. Did you just hear how metal that sounded? We might discuss it with our friends and make these long intellectual video essays as to why we like said character. But I'll speak just for me, at least a lot of these characters that fall into this stereotypical man archetype at the end of the day it comes down to if I think they're cool or not, and. And if I aspire to be a certain aspect of them. So far, I don't think I've said anything controversial or necessarily wrong. I pointed out that traditional masculinity teaches you to take responsibility of your life and kind of pull up your socks in a way. I don't think anybody can really have fault in that. The bad part is these people are not real. No human man is able of reaching these peak levels of traditional masculinity, just like in the media. And nor should you want to. We are not. These men only have four moods, animals that a lot of people online say we are that all we need in life is muscles, money, and someone to boss around. And then we're just content with life. No, that's. No. Sure, some of this stuff might make us feel good in a certain way, but take Kratos, for example. Do you think Kratos likes ice cream? You think Kratos eats ice cream regularly? If you're trying to be like Kratos, then are you now going to go cold turkey on ice cream? Because he said to he doesn't do it. You want to be like Kratos, right? So stop looking at this guy and saying, I want to be just like him. You like aspects of him. You can't be him. It's not possible. So then that begs the question, what happens when a man who identifies with this image of being a man can't fulfill these roles or these ideals and feels inauthentic? Well, for one, they become bitter to themselves and everyone around them. And if they can't live out this version of being a man, then they'll die being one. I love the Walking Dead. It's one of those games that, as years go by, it comes under a lot of criticism for lacking continuity between its seasons and game mechanics that did not age well. And as a video essayist who cares a lot about media literacy, I ignore all these critiques because I like this game a lot. The reason why I bring this game up is because I want to talk about a perfect case of a real traditional man's man not being able to perform his duties and turning very sour in the end. Season 4 of the Walking Dead is in the perspective of this new guy named Javi, a Mexican ex baseball player in his twenties who like everyone else, has had to learn to survive the zombie apocalypse day by day. The prologue of this season shows Javi having an older brother named David, who at the very least Had a pretty good life set up for himself, as opposed to his irresponsible little brother. David's got two great children, a staff sergeant role in the US State's army, and a loving wife who loves him very, very much. At least much more than his first wife. He has everything a guy like him thinks he needs to be a man. But the problem is he is a real piece of work. He constantly abuses his wife, blows up on his little brother over the smallest of arguments, and you can get this feeling that even though he's retired from the front lines, he misses the whole life or death rush of warfare and would trade that over his boring dad life in a heartbeat. My job sucks. Kate and I fight like cats and dogs. I belong back in the army. I had a purpose there. Some stuff happens when the zombies break out and David gets separated from his family, leaving Javi to be the main protector for years. And later in the season, when he finally does reconnect with them, David kind of just pushes Javi to the side, picks up his family, and disregards the fact Javi was ever there. Huh. David thinks he can just slot right back into being a father and a husband. But Kate, his wife, she is distraught that they found each other because David goes back to being this bossy, abusive husband. And also she realizes that she might have married the wrong brother. Gabe, while happy to see his dad, can see the kind of person he turns into when he's not happy. And it scares him. Mariana, his daughter, is in video game heaven at this point. But if she was alive, I'm sure she would say the same thing. That although they were stuck on the road and clinging for survival, she'd much rather prefer Javi being her carer over her gun crazed, power hungry dad. You can tell that this shift in allegiance to Javi messes with David's head, like a lot. This now causes him to indirectly punish Javi even more and keep an even tighter grip on Gabe and Kate. Like, it's really uncomfortable seeing a man trying to forcefully make his traditional values work rather than just having a conversation. It's like a baby jamming a circle into a triangle shaped hole, thinking something's going to change eventually. And on top of all that, it's kind of ironic. He keeps telling Javi to stop running away from family responsibilities, but at the same time, he's also kind of like, yeah, I kind of want to go back to shooting stuff, so do you mind being the dad now? David annoys me because I don't think he's a bad guy. He does genuinely care about Javi and the people under his career, but he keeps letting his principles and his ideals get in the way of genuine growth. A soldier isn't a husband or a father, A soldier is a soldier, nothing else. After seeing his brother, who he thought initially was useless, actually turn into more of a leader and a father figure to his family than he ever was, it is such an attack on his identity and that he makes the most emotion filled petty decisions at every turn in the game. So it makes sense that he is ready to do these hellbent Call of Duty kill Makarov suicide missions rather than wake up and smell the roses. Then maybe what he thinks is a good man is wrong. He thinks there's only one way to being a man and he's going to stick to it no matter the cost. I feel as though David is a representation of a broader topic on the plight of men in the modern age. He's like an extreme of what it looks like to allow the shackles of masculinity. And to be honest, just being a bad person can do to you. For hundreds of years men were seen as the only people who could provide for a family in ways like finance and security. And in current year a lot of women are gapping men in terms of education, leading to women making more than men, men feeling lesser than yada yada. Look, there's like 100 videos in the plight of men on YouTube, so go watch those. But essentially the game mode to life has changed and a lot of guys, young and old, are stuck trying to make sense of it with old software. And one of the few places a lot of us feel affirmed in our beliefs is through these hyper masculine fantasies. So it makes sense that we attach ourselves to characters in fiction where acting out their masculine urge to protect is still considered super important to that set society. Whether it's guys with a sword or a space gun or a space sword gun, it's all the same sentiment of wow, I'd like to die in a blaze of glory and feel important again. This is cool. This is badass. This is really inspiring. But just like everything else, taking this stuff to the extreme is where it becomes harmful. On a smaller scale, fantasizing about this version of masculinity can make you unsatisfied with a regular life and daydream about a world where you're the hero, but on a grander scale, it can cause you to put faith in something that will ultimately destroy you. Spoilers ahead for chapter 154. Of Vinland Saga. They're not major spoilers, I swear. It's about a random Viking dying, but this probably is one of the most important chapters of the entire story. For context, Vinland Saga is a story about an ex Viking named Thorfinn on a road of redemption after realizing the world of death and vengeance is no longer what he wants to put out into the world. The story delves into heavy philosophical themes on whether humans can truly live in peace, what it means to have an enemy at all, and is violence always the first answer when defending yourself or loved ones? The funny thing is, it's gonna be pretty tough looking for peace in a world full of mankind's most famous people for the kill now, grape woman later mentality. The chapter begins in the middle of a bloodbath of a battle. Heads are being lopped off like longswords and axes are ripping out intestines, and the main focus of the chapter is this one Viking. As he falls in battle after taking several arrows to the body laying on the floor, he thinks about how he did a good job installing the enemy before they could close their gates. Now his allies can flood the fortress and continue their siege. He's satisfied that he's fought till his last ounce of strength, and as his vision gets blurry, he eagerly awaits to be sent to Valhalla, a realm only for Vikings who died valiantly. In death, the combat go to but nothing happens. There are no heavens opening up to him. There are no Valkyries to carry him to the sky. It's dark and cold and he can't feel anything. And for once in his life he fears death because he realizes the belief of salvation through combat he was taught was a complete lie. This Persona or identity of being, this machine of killing did not serve him in the slightest other than give him a purpose to kill time. There's nothing at the end of all this fighting but black. And as the thoughts slow down, we get a panel of him shedding a single tear as he is seen as just another dead body on the battlefront as the war continues. It's pretty depressing stuff, but what I'm getting at is being so deep rooted in identity that has so many holes isn't a great way to live. Traditional masculinity can be more of a detriment rather than a benefit, and this glamorous final stand we love to fantasize about may need to be re evaluated on whether the sentiment comes from an honest perspective in our life. This obsession of dying in battle and being this Alpha Chad could allude to a misguided funnel of energy. And maybe the issue isn't why do guys want to rush into guaranteed death in fighting. And maybe it's rather why do guys only see themselves valuable when they go give up their lives? Hey. Yeah. We are in the hot seat now, boys. I feel like if I even got the most hyper masculine redneck to look at this meme and he had to choose just one and be honest on which side side he'd prefer. I think he'd say every man has two fantasies. All hands are against lads. We shall. It's okay, you don't have to act strong anymore. Yeah, I think I prefer the anime girl. Now, this is not me saying the solution for man's troubles is a woman's compassion, but it's a matter of putting our value as a man in the wrong places. The system's rigged because it is almost impossible to derive a satisfactory amount of value from getting money because there is someone online way more rich than you. You can't solely get a satisfactory amount of value from working out because there is always someone who has a better physique than you. In Christianity, we call this idolatry. It might not mean that you are bowing down and worshiping this thing, but you solely getting your value from these masculine traits means that they are your God in a sense. And I don't know about you, but there are days where it feels good to get a productive day of work, working out and grinding out a side hustle. But there are also days when I don't hit my goals and I feel like garbage. And if I'm being real, all that other stuff people tell me to put my value in, they just don't hit the same. I don't get the same gender euphoria making videos or doing arts and crafts. I just don't. I might like watching the Barbie movie, but I don't feel manly doing it. Yes, I don't think we should fantasize about self sacrifice as much as we do, but I have to admit that being in service to others is a pretty good feeling. So what do we do about this? If there is a wave of dudes dreaming of dying in battle in order to feel manly and valuable, then I'd hypothesize. Re evaluating what we see as valuable might give us some clarity on how to move forward. Maybe the idea that we must prove ourselves as men is inherently broken and not in our best interest. Maybe we can feel valuable and help people, just like traditional values say alive rather than dead, huh? I don't have a definitive solution, but there was this article I read from this dude called Prester John titled On the Masculine Urge to Die in a Suicidal Charge. And in the article he mentions this film called the Last Samurai as a reference to shed some light on the whole situation. Situation? The story is about this washed up army officer named Nathan Algren, played by Tom Cruise. He's mentally plagued by his participation in the cruel genocide of the American Indian wars and now spends his days being part of a traveling circus where his main act is fetishizing that same war of Western expansion that gives him nightmares. That is until the Imperial Japanese government seek him out directly for a job to teach their soldiers how to fight with modern military weapons in order to fight a rebel army of Samurai. Algon agrees to the offer, but the training is cut short as the rebel Samurai leader Katsumoto attacks their base. The Samurai make short work of these inexperienced soldiers as they don't even know how to reload a gun, resulting in half the soldiers being dead. And Katsumoto's men kidnapping Algren and forcing him to live among them in the Japanese countryside during the winter. Despite their grievances, Katsumoto orders the whole village to treat him as an esteemed guest rather than a prisoner of war. And through talking to Katsumoto, Ogaren finds out that he's not even that bad of a guy. He's honorable and he has no issue giving up power to the government, but he hates the trajectory that Japan is heading towards. Think about why a Samurai would hate a machine gun and you get the reason why he fights back so hard. Both Algren and Katsumoto share their life and death battles and two philosophies bubble up to the surface. Algren despises whole suicidal charge mentality. A lot of soldiers he knew died from. He hated the fact that just because they were orders from a higher up, he had to continue to fight even though they were outnumbered. He was one of the few survivors of 200 men who fought against an Indian army of 2,000. And when Kasumoto hears the story of Algren being forced to fight this losing battle, he goes, huh? Based. This whole Japanese dying with honor shtick really rubs Algren the wrong way initially, but at the very least he really starts to warm up to the integrity and the discipline he sees in the traditional Japanese way of living. So when Katsumoto decides to go to battle with the Imperial army again, Algren joins the battle, this time on the side of the rebels. And now you have this epic clash between old customs anew. The gun versus the blade, honor versus progress. The Samurai obviously have the moral high ground here, with more determination, tactics and skills than the enemy. So when they fight, all that doesn't even matter as it becomes a massacre. To call it a battle is being nice. No matter how skilled you are with a sword and a horse, you are not beating a Gatling gun. The Imperial soldiers have had a year to train, and now, with the help of modern weapons, they slaughter the Samurai. That day, modern values won. The curtains finally closed on the age of the Bushido, with even Katsumoto preferring to die by his own blade rather than surviving in a world where his values are no longer the norm. Defeated once again, Algren is brought to the young Emperor Meiji. And he's not really a bad guy either. He saw Japan being left behind in modern advancements and had to make the tough call to get rid of certain traditions in order to make sure Japan can still exist years from now. There could be other reasons as to why he was okay with being Westernized. But at least through Kasumoto's efforts, the young Emperor sees that he must not completely forget who they are as a people, even if they do decide to become modernized. The movie ends with Meiji saying how much he respected Katsumoto, the last Samurai, and he asks Algren how Katsumoto died. And Algren refuses to answer that question and instead replies with I will tell you how he lived. Too many of us intertwine our traditional masculine values to our identity. The sentiment of how badass it would be to die in battle is cool on the surface, but kind of sad after you peel back the layers on what the desire it's rooted in. This is something I'm trying to understand myself. So I am in the same boat as anyone who resonated with whatever I just said. Today, the longing for the good old days is only as popular as it is because there is a lot of guys that feel powerless, valueless and inauthentic as a man because the reality of becoming this unrealistic vessel of Chad energy can't be achieved. After all, if all of us knew that we actually have internal value and we don't have to prove ourselves with money, women, or how well you can swing a sword in order to feel valued, we might put the likes of these people out of business. There's no benefit into rushing into whatever suicidal charge you might be going through in your personal life life. I would suggest understanding that we have these desires to be authentic, socially engineered or not. But the key is to not let it consume or constrict you. Once you stop thinking that, you can prove your worth in every breath you take. Once you realize that living for a cause can be 10 times more badass than dying for one, there's so much more interesting big brain expanding interests and lifestyles that this human experience can bring. So, reiterating the question, how do we as men scratch that itch of wanting to feel valued in a world where we don't need to run headfirst into no man's land for a cool movie scene in our heads? A purpose. A purpose that can look at a future Gohan or a Katsumoto and say that it's badass but not an ideal to live by. Because at the end of the day, this world is even more messed up than most of the movies and stories we love. You can definitely scratch that itch of being a hero right now. Trust me, dying for a cause isn't going to be enough. Because what we need is those that are willing to live for one as well. Okay, Q A Time what made you decide on the name Mayorski? It's not really that crazy of a story. It's just the nickname I had growing up. I think my dad knew a Nigerian footballer named Mayorski Lashi, and then he just started calling me that. I don't know why. How do you structure your videos? Basically, I treat every single single video like a ball of dirt, and I keep polishing that ball of dirt until it becomes some sort of a shiny ball of dirt. So it's just constant refining from the very, very, very, very rough draft. What motivates you to keep on making videos? Honestly, I can't imagine how my life would be if I didn't have somewhere to express my hyper fixation for that month. So even if this goes nowhere, I'd still be probably making videos off the sole fact I need to continue being a regular human and I can't not talk about certain things for a long period of time. What are you reading right now? I just finished Dragon and Chameleon. That was really good. But man, it's only like 24 chapters and it's monthly, so that really sucks. How does it feel from where you blew up? I don't know. It doesn't feel. The last big crazy surreal moment was definitely hitting 10k and now I feel like I'm just steadily chugging along and I have my own little niche of people who I hop in a group chat with every month and say, hey guys, this is what I'm reading or watching, and I like this a lot. Please listen to me. Have you ever considered getting waves? Yes, and I never will because I am terrible at maintaining my hair. I am currently trying to grow out the Afro, which arguably is another hairstyle that takes a lot of maintaining, but I'm really committed to it. So what's your favorite anime? I will never tell you my favorite anime. It's constantly changing. There is a rotating three, but I feel bad for speaking about any one of them and putting them any below. So I'm it sounds like I'm getting mad at you, but I'm also getting mad at myself because I ask this question all the time to myself and I never have a proper answer to myself. So honestly, you've really just triggered me. But I'm still the same. Yeah.